The Battle for Wesnoth Wiki wiki https://wiki.wesnoth.org/Main\_Page MediaWiki 1.31.16 first-letter Media Special Talk User User talk Wesnoth Wesnoth talk File File talk MediaWiki MediaWiki talk Template Template talk Help Help talk Category Category talk Old Old talk Contrib Contrib talk ScenarioWML 0 1504 71902 71526 2023-12-10T21:34:08Z Laela 17677 /\* The \[multiplayer\] tag \*/ fix example of more specific lock setting wikitext text/x-wiki {{WML Tags}} The top level tags '''\[multiplayer\]''', '''\[test\]''', and '''\[scenario\]''' are \[\[AddonsWML|addon module\]\] tags that are all formatted the same way. The difference between these tags is the way that the scenarios they describe are accessed. The keys '''id''' and '''next\_scenario''' affect how scenarios can be accessed. Whenever a scenario is won, the scenario with id=''next\_scenario'' of the same tag type will be played. Units from the first scenario will be available for recall in the second. Some scenarios can be played without playing other scenarios first (in this case there is nothing on the recall list). These scenarios are called ''initial scenario''s. A list of initial scenarios, and how to access them: \* All '''\[multiplayer\]''' scenarios (without ''allow\_new\_game=no'') are initial scenarios listed in the multiplayer scenario selector screen (accessed by the "multiplayer" button). \* Any '''\[test\]''' scenario is an initial scenario. A test scenario can be accessed by running the game in test mode. (note: this is NOT the same as debug mode. It can be accessed using -t or --test followed by an optional scenario ID which defaults to 'test'.) {{DevFeature1.13|8}} It can also be accessed by assigning a hotkey to the "Test Scenario" command in hotkey preferences, then pressing that hotkey at the title screen. This will bring up a list of interactive test scenarios to choose from. (Automated test scenarios used for unit testing are excluded from this list but can still be run from the command-line.) \* Any '''\[scenario\]''' scenario with an id listed in the value of ''first\_scenario'' in a campaign tag (see \[\[CampaignWML\]\]) is an initial scenario accessed by selecting that campaign after clicking on the "campaign" button. == The \[scenario\] tag == The following keys and tags are recognized in '''\[scenario\]''' tags, in addition to all the common \[\[AddonsWML|addon module keys and tags\]\]: \* '''next\_scenario''': The id of the scenario to load when the current one is won. This can be changed dynamically, to build non-linear campaigns. \* '''map\_data''': inputs valid Wesnoth map data. See \[\[BuildingMaps\]\] for a description of the Wesnoth map syntax. \* '''map\_file''': {{DevFeature1.14|3}} path to a file containing Wesnoth map data. This is the recommended way to reference a map in a scenario. The version number 1.14.3 is not a typo; it was included but buggy in earlier 1.14.x releases. \*\* {{DevFeature1.15|3}} the file can be found via \[binary\_path\], as documented for \[\[DirectActionsWML#.5Breplace\_map.5D|\[replace\_map\]\]\]. \* '''include\_file''': {{DevFeature1.17|19}} path to a WML file; the contents of this file is merged into the scenario tag. This can be used for scenario files created by the map editor prior to version 1.17.19, for example. As with '''map\_file''', the binary path is searched for this file, but it looks in the ''scenarios'' directory instead of the ''maps'' directory. \* '''turns''': sets an event on turn ''turns'' causing the player to lose. Use ''-1'' to have no turn limit. Default value is ''-1'' on wesnoth-1.13 and ''100'' on wesnoth-1.12. See also \[\[EventWML\]\] \* '''turn\_at''': the turn to start on (default=1) \*: Note that none of the regular start-of-turn behavior, including poison damage, healing, income and refreshing unit movement and status, will occur before the start of turn 2. All start-of-turn \[\[EventWML|WML events\]\] will still be fired, however. \* '''random\_start\_time''': controls random starting time of day. Possible values are yes and no or list of possible start times; starting from 1 to number of times. for example ''random\_start\_time=2,3,5,6'' (default depends on version and mp/sp, better include this key) \* '''music''': the music file relative to ''./music/'' to play during the scenario \* '''\[music\]''': specifies the music tracks to play during this scenario, see \[\[MusicListWML\]\]. \* '''defeat\_music''': specifies a comma-separated list of music tracks which may be chosen to play on defeat. If not provided, the default in \[\[GameConfigWML\]\] is used instead. May be overridden by \[\[DirectActionsWML|endlevel\]\] clauses. \* '''victory\_music''': specifies a comma-separated list of music tracks which may be chosen to play on victory. If not provided, the default in \[\[GameConfigWML\]\] is used instead. May be overridden by \[\[DirectActionsWML|endlevel\]\] clauses. \* '''theme''': the name of the UI theme that should be used when playing this scenario. Valid ids to use can be found in the files in data/themes. Cutscene and Cutscene\_Minimal can be useful for dialog only scenarios. \* '''victory\_when\_enemies\_defeated''': when this is set to '''yes''' (default), the player wins once all non-allied units with '''canrecruit=yes''' (aka leaders) are killed. (Currently this only controls the win condition for when all enemies are defeated; it does not prevent the player from losing if he has no leader.) See Also \[\[SideWML\]\]. When this value is true the following keys can be used: \*\* '''carryover\_percentage''': by default 80% of the gold is carried over to the next scenario, with this key the amount can be changed. \*\* '''carryover\_add''': if true the gold will be added to the starting gold the next scenario, if false the next scenario will start with the amount of the current scenario (after taxes) or the minimum in the next scenario. Default is false. \* '''remove\_from\_carryover\_on\_defeat''': when this is set to '''yes''' (default), for sides who got defeated (according to the side.defeat\_condition), carryover will be removed. \* '''disallow\_recall''': when this is set to 'no'(default), the player is allowed to recall units from previous scenarios. \* '''experience\_modifier''': the percentage that required XP to level up (for all units in the scenario) is multiplied by. Default 100. Note that when used in a campaign, weird things (like units being above the required XP to level up) can happen if this value is different for different scenarios. \* '''do\_healing''': {{DevFeature1.15|0}} when set to yes, the engine will not skip healing at the first sides turn and will do the healing just like every other turn. \* '''\[story\]''': describes the intro screen. See \[\[IntroWML\]\] \* '''\[label\]''': sets a label \*\* '''x''', '''y''': location to set label \*\* '''text''': the label \* '''\[item\]''': places an item on map. See \[\[InterfaceActionsWML#.5Bitem.5D|InterfaceActionsWML\]\]. \* '''\[time\]''': how a day should progress. See \[\[TimeWML\]\] \* '''current\_time''': The time of day slot number (starting from zero) active at scenario start. \* '''\[time\_area\]''': how a day should progress in a given area. Everywhere not specified in a \[time\_area\] tag is affected by the \[time\] tags in the \[scenario\] tag \*\* takes x and y coordinates. \*\* '''\[time\]''': how a day should progress in those locations. See \[\[TimeWML\]\] \*\* '''current\_time''': The time slot number (starting with zero) active at the creation of the area. \*\* time areas can be used in events, assigned identifiers, and removed at discretion. They also accept complete Standard Location Filters. See \[\[DirectActionsWML\]\]. \* '''\[side\]''': describes one player. See \[\[SideWML\]\] \* '''map\_generation''': another way to generate a map. The map will be generated randomly \*\* '''default''': the default random map generator \* '''\[generator\]''' if this is present, the map and scenario will be generated randomly. See \[\[MapGeneratorWML\]\] \* \[\[TerrainGraphicsWML\]\]: Scenarios can define custom terrain rules for the rendering of the map. \* \[\[GameConfigWML#Color\_Palettes|Color palettes\]\] == The \[multiplayer\] tag == The following keys and subtags are additionally recognized in '''\[multiplayer\]''' scenarios: \* '''force\_lock\_settings''': provides a default value for \[\[SideWML\]\] ''lock'' attributes and forces the "Use map settings" to be checked and disabled. This is useful if author wants to limit game customization in order to keep the scenario/campaign balanced. Individual options can still be enabled if this key is set to '''yes'''. E.g. color selection can be enabled by explicitly setting ''color\_lock=no'' in \[\[SideWML\]\]. \* '''new\_game\_title''': if provided will be used instead of '''name''' for campaign entry points. \* '''allow\_new\_game''': (default=yes) allow/prevent the scenario to be listed in the game configuration screen. This is intended for multiplayer campaigns with multiple entry points. \* '''allow\_era''': a list of era ids. Only the eras with matching ids will be allowed to be played with this scenario. \* '''disallow\_era''': a list of era ids. Eras with matching ids will not be allowed to be played with this scenario. Cannot be used in parallel with allow\_era. \* '''ignore\_incompatible\_era''': a list of era ids. The eras with matching ids will be considered compatible with this scenario regardless their dependencies. \* '''allow\_modification''': same as allow\_era, but for modifications. \* '''disallow\_modification''': same as disallow\_era, but for modifications. Cannot be used in parallel with allow\_modification. \* '''ignore\_incompatible\_modification''': same as ignore\_incompatible\_era, but for modifications. \* '''force\_modification''': a list of modification ids (id key in \[modification\]). The specified modifications must be enabled to play this scenario. \* '''require\_scenario''': {{DevFeature1.13|0}} In a multiplayer scenario, this indicates that the scenario file is not enough (you have custom assets like terrain or additional unit art) and other player must download the full add-on not just the scenario WML to join a game. This will also mean that the '''addon\_min\_version''' attribute will control the minimum version number of your add-on which is compatible with this version. \* '''mp\_village\_gold''': {{DevFeature1.13|9}} default value for the corresponding attribute in '''\[side\]''' \* '''mp\_village\_support''': {{DevFeature1.13|9}} default value for the corresponding attribute in '''\[side\]''' \* '''mp\_shroud''': {{DevFeature1.13|9}} default value for the corresponding attribute in '''\[side\]''' \* '''mp\_fog''': {{DevFeature1.13|9}} default value for the corresponding attribute in '''\[side\]''' == The \[test\] tag == The following keys and subtags are additionally recognized in '''\[test\]''' scenarios: \* '''is\_unit\_test''': {{DevFeature1.13|8}} If set to 'yes', this scenario will not appear in the list of test scenarios. The list of test scenarios can be reached from the titlescreen via the Start Test Scenario hotkey. This hotkey is not set by default. The tags documented in \[\[TestWML\]\] are enabled by an #ifdef TEST conditional, and it's a reasonable assumption that any \[test\] tag will itself be inside an #ifdef TEST conditional. == Defining the Map == There are several possible ways to define the map for a scenario. First of all, the game supports two different types of map: a "plain map", which typically has a .map extension (or occasionally .mask when used as a terrain mask), and a "scenario map", which has a .cfg extension. A common practice is to include the map data directly into the scenario. If you're using a plain map, that looks like this: <syntaxhighlight lang=wml> \[scenario\] map\_data="{~add-ons/Your\_Addon/maps/the-file.map}" \[/scenario\] </syntaxhighlight> This uses the WML preprocessor to directly include the contents of the map file. If you're using a scenario map, it instead looks like this: <syntaxhighlight lang=wml> \[scenario\] {~add-ons/Your\_Addon/maps/the-file.cfg} \[/scenario\] </syntaxhighlight> Another way to specify the map is to use '''map\_file''', which resolves the map against the \[\[BinaryPathWML|binary path\]\] to locate the file. This looks the same for either a plain map or a scenario map: <syntaxhighlight lang=wml> \[scenario\] map\_file="the-file.map" \[/scenario\] </syntaxhighlight> The last way to specify a map is to use a \[\[MapGeneratorWML|generator\]\]. == Scenario End Conditions == In this section we will give a more precise explanation of things that can cause a scenario to end. \* At the '''end of every turn''', the turn number will be compared with the turn limit. \*\* If we pass the limit, the ''time over'' event will fire. If turns are not added by WML in response to this event, then the scenario will immediately end in defeat. \[\[EventWML#The\_.27name.27\_Key\_.28Mandatory.29\]\] \* At the '''beginning of any turn''', and at '''the end of any user or ai action''', the victory conditions will be checked. This will result either in the scenario ending or continuing. The procedure for this is as follows: \*\* Every side will have its ''defeat\_condition'' evaluated based on the units it currently has on the board. \[\[SideWML\]\] \*\*\* At this time, villages of defeated sides will be unflagged, and if ''remove\_from\_carryover\_on\_defeat = yes'' then their carryover will be cleared as well. \*\* If any two not-defeated sides are enemies, the scenario will continue. \*\*\* At this time, the ''enemies defeated'' event will fire. \*\* Furthermore, if ''victory\_when\_enemies\_defeated=no'' and there exists a human controlled side, then the scenario will continue. \*\*\* The human controlled side may be local or remote, for networked mp play. \*\* If neither of these conditions is met then the scenario will end. \*\*\*In victory or defeat according to whether a local human-controlled side is not defeated. == See Also == \* \[\[EventWML\]\] \* \[\[ReferenceWML\]\] \[\[Category: WML Reference\]\] am0fykapyfr0yjt396kowxejjg0eg68